Bucket Policies

Bucket policies provide centralized, 
access control to buckets and objects based on a variety of conditions, 
including Amazon S3 operations, requesters, resources, and aspects of the request (e.g., IP address). 
The policies are expressed in our access policy language and enable centralized management of permissions. 
The permissions attached to a bucket apply to all of the objects in that bucket.

Individuals as well as companies can use bucket policies. 
When companies register with Amazon S3 they create an account. 
Thereafter, the company becomes synonymous with the account. 
Accounts are financially responsible for the Amazon resources they (and their employees) create. 
Accounts have the power to grant bucket policy permissions and assign employees permissions based on a variety of conditions. 

For example, 
an account could create a policy that gives a user write access:

1）To a particular S3 bucket
1）From an account's corporate network
1）During business hours
1）From an account's custom application (as identified by a user agent string)

An account can grant one application limited read and write access, 
but allow another to create and delete buckets as well. 

An account could allow several field offices to store their daily reports in a single bucket, 
allowing each office to write only to a certain set of names (e.g. "Nevada/*" or "Utah/*") 
and only from the office's IP address range.

Unlike access control lists (described below), 
which can add (grant) permissions only on individual objects, 
policies can either add or deny permissions across all (or a subset) of objects within a bucket. 
With one request an account can set the permissions of any number of objects in a bucket.
An account can use wildcards (similar to regular expression operators) on Amazon resource names (ARNs) and other values, 
so that an account can control access to groups of objects 
that begin with a common prefix or end with a given extension such as .html.

Only the bucket owner is allowed to associate a policy with a bucket. 
Policies, written in the access policy language, 
allow or deny requests based on:

1）Amazon S3 bucket operations (such as PUT ?acl), 
   and object operations (such as PUT Object, or GET Object)
1）Requester
1）Conditions specified in the policy

An account can control access based on specific Amazon S3 operations, 
such as GetObject, GetObjectVersion, DeleteObject, or DeleteBucket.

The conditions can be such things as 
1）IP addresses, 
2）IP address ranges in CIDR notation, 
3）dates, user agents, HTTP referrer and transports (HTTP and HTTPS).

For more information, see Using Bucket Policies and User Policies.