https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Real-time_Transport_Protocol#Overview

RTP is designed for end-to-end, real-time, transfer of streaming media. 
The protocol provides facilities for jitter compensation and 
detection of out of sequence arrival in data, 
which are common during transmissions on an IP network. 
RTP allows data transfer to multiple destinations through IP multicast.
RTP is regarded as the primary standard 
for audio/video transport in IP networks and 
is used with an associated profile and payload format.

Real-time multimedia streaming applications 
require timely delivery of information and 
often can tolerate some packet loss to achieve this goal. 

For example, 
loss of a packet in audio application 
may result in loss of a fraction of a second of audio data, 
which can be made unnoticeable with suitable error concealment algorithms.

选择传输层协议

The Transmission Control Protocol (TCP), 
although standardized for RTP use,
is not normally used in RTP applications 
because TCP favors reliability over timeliness. 

Instead the majority of the RTP implementations 
are built on the User Datagram Protocol (UDP).
Other transport protocols specifically 
designed for multimedia sessions are SCTP and DCCP,
although, as of 2010, they are not in widespread use.

串流控制传输协议（英语：Stream Control Transmission Protocol 或简写 SCTP ）
传输层协议，SCTP 可以理解为和 TCP 及 UDP 相类似的

数据拥塞控制协议（英语：Datagram Congestion Control Protocol，缩写为 DCCP ）
针对传输层中UDP的新传输的协议而发展出来，用来传输实时业务

RTP was developed by 
the Audio/Video Transport working group of 
the IETF standards organization. 
RTP is used in conjunction with other protocols such as H.323 and RTSP. The 
RTP standard defines a pair of protocols: RTP and RTCP. 
RTP is used for transfer of multimedia data, and the 
RTCP is used to periodically send control information and QoS parameters.

-------------------------------------
Protocol components
-------------------------------------
The RTP specification describes two sub-protocols, RTP and RTCP.

The data transfer protocol, RTP, 
facilitates the transfer of real-time data. 
Information provided by this protocol include 
1）timestamps (for synchronization), 
2）sequence numbers (for packet loss and reordering detection) and 
3）the payload format which indicates the encoded format of the data.

The control protocol RTCP is used to 
1）specify quality of service (QoS) feedback and 
2）synchronization between the media streams. 
The bandwidth of RTCP traffic compared to RTP is small, typically around 5%.

RTP sessions are typically initiated 
between communicating peers using a signaling protocol, such as 
1）H.323, 
2）the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP), or 
3）Jingle (XMPP). 
These protocols may use the Session Description Protocol 
to negotiate the parameters for the sessions.

negotiate[英][nɪˈgəʊʃieɪt] [美][nɪˈgoʊʃieɪt]
vi.谈判，协商，交涉
vt.谈判达成；成功越过；议价出售

-------------------------------------
Sessions
-------------------------------------
An RTP session is established for each multimedia stream. 
A session consists of an IP address with a pair of ports for RTP and RTCP. 
For example, 
audio and video streams use separate RTP sessions, 
enabling a receiver to deselect a particular stream.
The ports which form a session are negotiated 
using other protocols such as RTSP (using SDP in the setup method) and SIP.

会话描述协议（Session Description Protocol或简写SDP）
描述的是流媒体的初始化参数

According to the specification, an 
RTP port should be even（偶数） and the 
RTCP port is the next higher odd port number.
It is however also possible to use a single port for both RTP and RTCP.
RTP and RTCP typically use unprivileged UDP ports (1024 to 65535),
but may use other transport protocols (most notably, SCTP and DCCP) as well, 
as the protocol design is transport independent.